# scintillation_rate_equations
Scintillation is a physical phenomenon in which a material irradiated with gamma rays, alpha particles or electrons emits light. In this project I have computationally implemented Finite Difference Method to computationally solve the rate equations related to scintillation. For more details refer to this [paper](10.1103/PhysRevB.92.115207).\
The basic methodology followed is to calculate light yield and the decay pulse for 11 different excitation densities and then used interpolationf for finding the light yield and decay pulse at some intermediate excitation density.\
\
**_reset_file.m_**: This file is to be run first before executing any other file. While the program calculates the light yield and decay pulse at each(out of the 11) excitation densities, a variable has been created to keep track of the excitation density whose calculation is going on. This reset file is used to reset the variable to 1 and also to clear the array in which light yield at each excitation density is stored.\
**_scintillation_LaBr3.m_**: This file contains the main structure of the Finite Difference Method. The type of FDM used is Centred Space, Forward Time. The basic algorithm followed is the use central difference scheme to approximate the space derivatives and forward difference to approximate time derivatives. Electric field at each discretized space node has been found by solving Poisson's equation.There are 2 main loops within the code. One to access different discretized time nodes and another to access different discretized space nodes.\
**_equation(m)_LaBr3_a.m_**: (m) here represents the equation number. This contains the terms of rate equation related to thermal and electric field diffusion.\
**_equation(m)_LaBr3_b.m_**: (m) here represents the equation number. This contains the terms of rate equation relatde to vaarious processes such as bimolecular recombination, deep defect trapping, etc.
**_Constants2.m_**: This contains all the values of constants.
